---
title: Open Notebook: Wget & Data Mining
author: Phoebe Mannell
date: January 29, 2016
---

For 3 years I lived with a friend who worked as a content specialist and web designer for various startup enterprises. The one thing I learned, over and over again, while witnessing her work in the digital world, is the importance of a notebook. A real, paper notebook. That you write in. With a pen. 

Sites would crash, something would go wrong, websites suddenly because unusable while she was working on them. Yet she rarely lost all of her work, because so much of it was saved in her notebooks. She could even go back to work on a site that she hadn't seen in ages and not mess it up, because she had carefully written down what she had done and the tools she had used, and (okay this part is a bit bonkers) she indexed her notebooks so she could find her roadmap and directions so she wouldn't get lost. 

Fast forward to now, and while I retained precisely zero of the things she tried to teach me about computers, I knew when I signed up for this course that I needed to keep notes, and that unless I wanted to kneecap myself, I needed to keep notes on paper. So when I go through these tutorials, I'm writing notes, and keeping track of how to do things, and noting the tricks and tips so that, hopefully, in a few months or years time I can come back to it, and remember enough to reteach myself what I learned. That way, if in my usual style I forget or lose my password for GitHub where I'm keeping the digital version of my notes, I'm not TOTALLY out to lunch. 

I hope. 

Wget

Step one: read the entire tutorial before doing anything. I want to know what's coming and I don't want to realize after an hour of struggling with a step that the next paragraph says that what I'm trying to do is optional. (I didn't do step one this time. Next time I will) 

Step one point one: pour a scotch

Step two: read all the instructions. hell google some stuff. figure out WHY you are doing what you're doing. It's not enough to be doing this because it's an assignment. That's not why I signed up for this class. I signed up to get it. So put in the effort to *get it*. 

Step three: get really, really, really frustrated. this step is very necessary. and very unavoidable. the only way to learn to ride a bicycle is to fall over a few times while you get the balance right. i definitely skinned my metaphorical knees on this one a few times. Xcode took forever to download, and then it turns out it was already on my computer. so to get things to run properly I had to uninstall the new version (because i couldn't uninstall the old version) and then run through updating the older one. an hour and a half later, I'm ready to start... 

okay. so. I just downloaded a whole bunch of html files. I understand that now I can use them from my computer, and I do get that this means I can compile the text into data repositories where i can run analysis and searches and stuff like that. but golly gee that's a lot of time and a lot of downloading for not a whole lot of return. this would be super useful when building a website, or working on redoing one. but as the tutorial says, not a lot of websites are set up in a way that this sort of direct download would be useful. 

so then what can I do with these html files? Now that I have them how can I use them to do research? 